%!encoding: iso-8859-1


% These are comments and will not be generated in any output
% -------------------

%This document is in text2tags format. You can generate html, plain text and
%moinmoin formatted documentation by running txt2tags on this document. See the
%txt2tags home page for more details.  Please insert manual line breaks in this
%document as it makes diffing for changes much easier. To do this in vim 
%automatically, select a section then issue (gq) command. Please dont
%apply vim formatting to the whol document as it screws up some formatting
%rather apply it selectively to paragraphs where needed.

% To generate teh text version of this document:
% txt2tags -t txt --toc --enum-title -o INSTALL  INSTALL.t2t
% To generate the moinmoin version of this document
% txt2tags -t moin --toc --enum-title -o INSTALL.moin  INSTALL.t2t

% End of comments
% -------------------


= Introduction =

/!\ ***Note to document writers:*** Please use this document as the central
place for describing build procedures. Please do not remove this notice. 

/!\ ***Note:*** This is a 'cut and paste' tutorial - in most cases you can
simply copy the commands listed in codeblocks that look like this:

``` somecommand to be pasted ```

openModeller Desktop is a faily complex piece of software. I has 3 main 
dependencies for building:

 * Qt 4.3 or better - Qt is a C++ high level library for building graphical
 applications, networking, xml, working with graphics etc.
 * libopenModeller - openModellerDesktio uses this library for carrying out
 local modelling (i.e. on the same pc as where the application is running).
 * QGIS - used to provide mapping functionality within the application

In turn some of these dependencies have their own subdependencies for example 
libopenModeller requires stl, gdal, proj, expat and optionally sqlite3 and 
the gnu scientific library (GSL). In this document we will walk you through 
the process of building the openModeller Desktop application on the
following platforms:

 * Windows MSVC
 * Windows Mingw
 * Gnu/Linux
 * Mac OSX



